# Final-year-reserch-project
Home automation system with autonomous device identification 

#Introduction

Nowadays home automation is tending all over the world. Home automation system represent automation sensation and electronic control of devices to leads to ease and comfort lifestyle for each member at home. 
According to Figure 1.1, Home automation market rapid growth in the past decade. In 2023, there have 85 billion markets in the industry. But there are few solutions available in the market. But there are few solutions available in the market and also there are number of can be identify. In the market, have a good market opportunity to success.
 
In-home automation, electronic and electrical environments with respect to this context is an environment that consists of apparatuses such as Tv, HVAC system, radios, motors, AC systems, lighting systems, etc. A remotely accessible environment can assess appliances and can easily control appliances using a web interface.
The main issues of the home automation system are we can't directly identify devices using system. always need human interaction to assign devices to the system. the system cannot identify a frequent pattern of the user, user need to do same thing, again and again, every day. and also, the system should communicate with user friendly way, button click in not a good way.
Using artificial intelligence, need to address those issues that are happening in the home automation system. The target of the project is to embed artificial intelligence into home automation systems. The initial usage of the product is to act as an assistant of the users, control surrounding devices, understanding human speech, etc. The uses of this product will be home automation or industry automation. This home automation system can identify the devices from the voltage and current patterns. Users can switch on and off the devices from commanding to the computer using voice. 
The motivation of the project is that currently there are no such solutions available in the market and therefore need to build the product ourselves. In the long run, the product can potentially also can be commercialized and sell to the other service business in Sri Lanka or internationally. This project will give me an excellent view of how a software product implementation starting and how is the idea became to the actual productization.
The special component of this system is that, the system can identify which devices are connected to the system. To do that system collect device current and voltage consumption and cluster the data using different clustering algorithms. Smart plug develops to send current and voltage consumption of the device to the system. The controlling part of the System is mainly develop using a web interface.  Any person who is able to connect system can easily control home devices.
